Update multiple data sources and add TSVB and Vega viz types (#7229)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/visualize/vega.md

---
layout: default
title: Vega
parent: Building data visualizations
nav_order: 50
---

# Vega

> [Vega](https://vega.github.io/vega/) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) are open-source, declarative language visualization tools that you can use to create custom data visualizations with your OpenSearch data and [Vega Data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/). These tools are ideal for advanced users comfortable with writing OpenSearch queries directly. Enable the `vis_type_vega` plugin in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file to write your [Vega specifications](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/specification/) in either JSON or [HJSON](https://hjson.github.io/) format or to specify one or more OpenSearch queries within your Vega specification. By default, the plugin is set to `true`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Vega](https://vega.github.io/vega/) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) are open-source, declarative language visualization tools that you can use to create custom data visualizations with your OpenSearch data and [Vega data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/). These tools are ideal for advanced users comfortable with writing OpenSearch queries directly. Enable the `vis_type_vega` plugin in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file to write your [Vega specifications](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/specification/) in either JSON or [HJSON](https://hjson.github.io/) format or to specify one or more OpenSearch queries in your Vega specification. By default, the plugin is set to `true`. 
```

## Creating Vega visualizations from multiple data sources
Introduced 2.13
{: .label .label-purple }

> Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled. These can be found in `config/opensearch_dasboards.yaml`. For configuration details, refer to the `vis_type_vega` [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/src/plugins/vis_type_vega/README.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, ensure that the following configuration settings are enabled in the `config/opensearch_dasboards.yaml` file. For configuration details, refer to the `vis_type_vega` [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/src/plugins/vis_type_vega/README.md).
```

```
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_vega.enabled: true
```

> Once you have configured [multiple data sources]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/multi-data-sources/) in OpenSearch Dashboards, you can use Vega to query those data sources. The following GIF shows the process of creating Vega visualizations in OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you've configured [multiple data sources]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/multi-data-sources/) in OpenSearch Dashboards, you can use Vega to query those data sources. The following GIF shows the process of creating Vega visualizations in OpenSearch Dashboards.
```

![Process of creating Vega visualizations in OpenSearch Dashboards]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/configure-vega.gif)

### Step 1: Set up and connect data sources

Open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the menu on the left.
2. Select **Data sources** and then select the **Create data source** button.

> 3. From the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.
```

> 4. From the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data button** for the **Sample web logs** dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. On the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data button** for the **Sample web logs** dataset.
```

> The following GIF shows these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following GIF shows the steps required for setting up and connecting a data source.
```

![Setting up and connecting data sources with OpenSearch Dashboards]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/Add_datasource.gif)

### Step 2: Create the visualization

1. From the menu on the left, select **Visualize**.

> 2. From the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **Vega** from the pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **Vega** in the pop-up window.
```

> 3. Proceed with the steps under Add the Vega specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Step 3: Add the Vega specification

> By default, queries use data from the local cluster. You can assign individual `data_source_name` values to each OpenSearch query within your Vega specification. This allows you to query multiple indexes across different data sources in a single visualization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, queries use data from the local cluster. You can assign individual `data_source_name` values to each OpenSearch query in your Vega specification. This allows you to query multiple indexes across different data sources in a single visualization.
```

> 1. Verify that the data source you created is specified under `data_source_name`. Alternatively, within your Vega specification, add the `data_source_name` field under the `url` property to target a specific data source by name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that the data source you created is specified under `data_source_name`. Alternatively, in your Vega specification, add the `data_source_name` field under the `url` property to target a specific data source by name.
```

}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## Creating Vega visualizations with OpenSearch Dashboards

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Creating Vega visualizations using multiple data sources with OpenSearch Dashboards
```

This title should be revised. These steps reference creating a Vega visualization with MDS enabled. Vega can still function without MDS and steps for these have not been added.

Before proceeding, ensure that the following configuration is enabled in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file:

```yml
vis_type_vega.enabled: true
```

### Step 1: Set up and connect data sources

Open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

> 1. From the **Home** page, select **Add sample data**. For this tutorial, select **Sample web logs**.

Reviewer 3: This step should be last in the list since the data source connection has to be established before installing data (reference [the blog post PR](https://github.com/opensearch-project/project-website/pull/2837) for updated steps).
